# Internationalization

Internationalization is the design and development of a product, application or document content that enables easy localization for target audiences that vary in culture, region, or language. (The [W3C](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/W3C) definition)

# Implementing i18n

## Front-end

### [i18n Vue plugin](https://kazupon.github.io/vue-i18n/)

## Database

[Different strategies: tables, columns and databases](https://www2.microstrategy.com/producthelp/Current/ProjectDesignGuide/WebHelp/Lang_1033/Content/Internationalization_through_tables_and_columns_or.htm)

[Databases structures for multilingual data](https://medium.com/i18n-and-l10n-resources-for-developers/whats-the-best-database-structure-to-keep-multilingual-data-5091966d379c)

## A mix of both

By talking with colleagues about this topic another solution was brought up: having the birds scientific names in the database and having the French and English vernacular names of birds in my front-end i18n component.
This solution provides a lighter database.

# The problematics of an i18n strategy

## A bilingual application

_Ornis_ will be in two languages. It is meant to be used in France, so its main language will be French. However tourists may also use this app. With enough growth, its data could also interest scientists. Hence the app must also be in English.

## How to store the same info in different languages

To take the example of _Ornis_'s bird entity, it has these properties:

- vernacular name
- scientific name
- description

Vernacular names and descriptions will have to exist in French and in English.
What is the best solution to store them?

In a database, changing the fetch depending on the user's language (as taken from their browser or their preferences)?
In a mix of database and i18n front-end component?

## The impact of this decision

It is a priority to define _Ornis_'s i18n strategy because it will impact the creation of the database as well as the front-end and back-end code. Whose responsibility will it be to get the translations, the front-end or the back-end? Does the data contained need to be protected, as keeping it in the front-end will expose it? Will the front-end or the back-end be in charge of displaying the list alphabetically?

The question of internationalization impacts the app's **architecture** and makes me put into practice the **DRY** principle as well as the **separation of responsibilities** principle.

## One choice: Keep It Simple, Stupid! -> Scientific names in the database and vernacular names in a JSON

The KISS principle motivates the final choice, which is to have the birds' scientific names in the database and their vernacular names in different languages stored in JSON files.

Indeed, it would be simpler to have the i18n plugin deal with the translation of the vernacular names.
Also, displaying the birds list alphabetically would depend on the target language. Using the i18n plugin would be easier than doing it in the back, because in the back it would require to have different endpoints depending on the language.
Finally, birds' vernacular names are not a type of data that needs protection, so there would be no security issue.

## Evolution of the solution: a translation table in the database

I realized that having scientific names in the database and vernacular names in a JSON stored in the front-end made both the front and the back responsible for naming birds, which seemed like a risky design.
Hence I finally decided to create a translation table in the database.

However accessing the translations depending on the language of the browser made me duplicate methods and create complicated custom queries.

By the time of the 1st mock exam I had to repriorize and I archived my work on a bilingual app.
